Request and Response Headers ============================HTTP messages are composed of a header and message body containing the data.Header lines provide information about the request or response, or about the object sent in the message body. A header line is ASCII text in the form "header-name:value". The "header-name" is not case-sensitive although the "value" may be. A header may have as many header lines as needed.Section 14 of `RFC 2616 Fielding, et al., Hypertext Transfer Protocol – HTTP/1.1 <http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec14.html#sec14>`_ defines header lines.For requests, the Torrent Suite™ Software API usually only requires headers to be specified for PUT, POST, and DELETE methods. For GET requests, the necessary information is provided as a parameter. Response messages from the server always include a header.Topics on this page:* :ref:`apimanref_reqhdr`* :ref:`apimanref_resphdr`.. _apimanref_reqhdr:Request header--------------A request header might be as simple as the following example::	Content-Type:application/jsonThis specifies the format of the transmitted data, if it is not specified as a parameter... _apimanref_resphdr:Response header---------------A response header is usually similar to the following example::	Status Code:200 OK	Date: Wed, 01 Jun 2011 22:38:49 GMT	Server: Apache/2.2.2.14 (Ubuntu)	Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8	Keep-Alive: timeout=15, max=100	Connection: Keep-Alive	Transfer-Encoding: chunkedThe ``Status Code`` is of particular interest, and the ``Content-Type`` header line describes the data format.